[docs] Create new X home page (#4298)
mui/mui-x: docs/data/advanced-components/overview.md

---
title: Advanced Components - Overview
---

# Advanced Components - Overview

<p class="description">A collection of fast and powerful components.</p>

> ## Licenses

Author: This section is inspired by [Data Grid - Getting Started # Plans](https://mui.com/components/data-grid/getting-started/#plans) but reworked

While MUI Core is entirely licensed under MIT, MUI X serves a part of its components under a commercial license.
Please pay attention to the license.

> ### Community Plan

Author: I am in favor of using "Pro Plan" / "Community Plan" / "Premium Plan"

> Published under [MIT license](https://tldrlegal.com/license/mit-license) and [free forever](https://mui-org.notion.site/Stewardship-542a2226043d4f4a96dfb429d16cf)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Published under [MIT license](https://tldrlegal.com/license/mit-license) and [free forever](https://mui-org.notion.site/Stewardship-542a2226043d4f4a96dfb429d16cf5bd)
```

The packages of the **Community** Plan are:

- [`@mui/x-data-grid`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@mui/x-data-grid)
- [`@mui/x-date-pickers`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@mui/x-date-pickers)

### Pro Plan

This plan contains the features that are at the limit of what the open-source model can sustain. From a price perspective, the plan is designed to be accessible to most professionals.

> See [Pricing](https://mui.com/store/items/material-ui-pro/) for details on purchasing licenses.

Reviewer: Maybe this page is more appropriate than the store to discover the pricing strategy
```suggestion
See [Pricing](https://mui.com/pricing/) for details on purchasing licenses.
```

The packages of the **Pro** Plan are:

- [`@mui/x-data-grid-pro`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@mui/x-data-grid-pro)
- [`@mui/x-date-pickers-pro`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@mui/x-date-pickers-pro)

The features exclusives to the **Pro** Plan are marked with the <span class="plan-pro"></span> icon across our documentation.

<div class="only-light-mode">
  <img src="/static/x/commercial-header-icon-light.png" style="width: 579px; margin-bottom: 2rem;" alt="">
</div>
<div class="only-dark-mode">
  <img src="/static/x/commercial-header-icon-dark.png" style="width: 560px; margin-bottom: 2rem;" alt="">
</div>

### 🚧 Premium Plan

This plan contains the most advanced features.

The features exclusives to the **Premium** Plan are marked with the <span class="plan-premium"></span> icon across our documentation.
The **Premium** Plan also contains all the features of the **Pro** Plan

> ## MIT vs. commercial

Author: Pure Copy Paste

Author: Copy / pasted
But I agree that we talk a lot about the "why", which was maybe useful one year ago, but now our product feature should justify the cost by themselves.

_How do we decide if a feature is MIT or commercial?_

We have been building MIT React components since 2014,
and have learned much about the strengths and weaknesses of the MIT license model.
The health of this model is improving every day. As the community grows, it increases the probability that developers contribute improvements to the project.
However, we believe that we have reached the sustainability limits of what the model can support for advancing our mission forward. We have seen too many MIT licensed components moving slowly or getting abandoned. The community isn't contributing improvements as fast as the problems deserved to be solved.

We are using a commercial license to forward the development of the most advanced features, where the MIT model can't sustain it.
A solution to a problem should only be commercial if it has no MIT alternatives.

> For each set of component, you can check the feature comparison table:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For each set of components, you can check out the feature comparison table:
```

> - [Data Grid](/x/react-data-grid/getting-started/#feature-comparison)

Author: Should we directly link to [the pricing page](https://mui.com/pricing/) which has the most advanced feature comparison UI ?

Right now we have 3 lists:

- https://mui.com/pricing/
- https://mui.com/components/data-grid/getting-started/#feature-comparison
- https://mui.com/components/data-grid/#features

I would at least drop the 3rd one (not in this PR)

Reviewer: I do not know if we should remove mui.com/components/data-grid/#features

For sure we should not link to this section because it is less informative than feature comparison. But it seems to be a good way to give an overview of what is available in the component without having to navigate on a big table

Author: > I think the mui.com/pricing page is the best place to send people.

@samuelsycamore would you keep https://mui.com/components/data-grid/getting-started/#feature-comparison
And if so, for which usages ?

Reviewer 2: @flaviendelangle is there any info on that page that isn't included on the Pricing page? If it's all there already then I think this #feature-comparison section is redundant. I would lean toward keeping all of this info on the Pricing page as the single source of truth.

Author: - https://mui.com/pricing/
- https://mui.com/components/data-grid/getting-started/#feature-comparison
- https://mui.com/components/data-grid/#features

The 1st two are almost identical (but the 2nd is DataGrid only)
Le 3rd one is a partial list 

I think we could have two at most
With :
- The pricing page with a very detailed collapsible list, that serve as source of truth for our community
- On section in each component page focusing only on the most important / most exciting features of the pro / premium, to serve as an entry point for Community users to give them a taste of what we have and give them a reason to go to the full list

> ## Evaluation (trial) licenses

Author: Pure Copy Paste

You are [free to install](https://mui.com/store/legal/mui-x-eula/#evaluation-trial-licenses) and try our **Pro** / **Premium** components as long as it is not used for the development of a feature intended for production.
Please take the component for a test run, no need to contact us.

## License key

For commercially licensed software, a license key is provided.
This removes the watermark and console warning when valid.
This license key is meant as a reminder for developers and their team to know when they forgot to license the software or renew the license.

### License key installation

Once you purchase a license, you'll receive a license key by email.
This key should be installed to remove the watermark and
console warnings.
You must set the license key before rendering the first component.
You only need to install the key once in your application.

```jsx

> import { LicenseInfo } from '@mui/x-license-pro';

Author: The old doc was importing it from `@mui/x-data-grid-pro`

LicenseInfo.setLicenseKey(
  'x0jTPl0USVkVZV0SsMjM1kDNyADM5cjM2ETPZJVSQhVRsIDN0YTM6IVREJ1T0b9586ef25c9853decfa7709eee27a1e',
);
```

> ### Security

Author: Pure Copy Paste

The check of the license key is done without making any network requests.

The license key is designed to be public, the only thing we ask of licensed users is to not proactively publicize their license key.

> Exposing the license key in a JavaScript bundle is expected.

Author: @oliviertassinari

> ### Validation errors

Author: Pure Copy Paste

If the validation of the license key fails, the component displays a watermark and provides a console warning in both development and production.
End users can still use the component.

Here are the different possible validation errors:

> #### Missing license key

Author: Pure Copy Paste

If the license key is missing, the component will look something like this:

<div class="only-light-mode">
  <img src="/static/x/watermark-light.png" style="width: 653px; margin-bottom: 2rem;" alt="" loading="lazy">
</div>
<div class="only-dark-mode">
  <img src="/static/x/watermark-dark.png" style="width: 645px; margin-bottom: 2rem;" alt="" loading="lazy">
</div>

> Note that you are still allowed to use the component for [evaluation purposes](#evaluation-trial-licenses) in this case.

> #### License key expired

Author: Pure Copy Paste

The licenses are perpetual, the license key will work forever with the current version of the software.

However, **access to updates/upgrades** is not perpetual.

> Installing a version of the component released after the license key has expired will trigger a watermark and console message.

Reviewer 2: Rephrasing and expanding on this for clarity.

```suggestion
An expired license key will always work with the version of the component it was licensed to cover.
But if you try to install a newer version of the component with an expired license, it will display a watermark and a console warning.
```

> For example, if you purchase a one-year license today, you are not licensed to install a version released two years in the future, but you can optionally update to any version, including major versions, if it's released in the next 12 months.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, if you purchase a one-year license today, you will be able to update to any version—including major versions—released in the next 12 months.
But you will not be able to install a newer version released two years from now, unless you purchase a new license to cover it.
```

#### Invalid license key

> The license key you have installed is not as issued by MUI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This error indicates that your license key doesn't match what was issued by MUI—this is likely a typo.
```

> ## Support

Author: Pure Copy Paste

### GitHub

We use GitHub issues as a bug and feature request tracker. If you think you have found a bug, or have a new feature idea, please start by making sure it hasn't already been [reported or fixed](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aclosed). You can search through existing issues and pull requests to see if someone has reported one similar to yours.

> [Open an issue](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues/new/choose)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Open an issue](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues/new/choose) in the MUI X repo.
```

> ### StackOverflow

Reviewer 2: I see it stylized in various ways all over the internet, but stackoverflow.com refers to itself as "Stack Overflow" fwiw.

```suggestion
### Stack Overflow
```

> For crowdsourced answers from expert MUI developers in our community.
> StackOverflow is also visited from time to time by the maintainers of MUI.

Reviewer 2: Rephrasing for grammar.

```suggestion
Visit Stack Overflow to ask questions and read crowdsourced answers from expert developers in the MUI community, as well as MUI maintainers.
```

> [Post a question](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/mui)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Post a question about MUI X](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/mui) on Stack Overflow.
```

### Professional support

> When purchasing an MUI X Pro or Premium license you get access to professional support for a limited duration.

Reviewer 2: What is the length of the "limited duration"? Is it as long as the license is active?

```suggestion
The MUI X Pro and Premium Plans include access to professional support for as long as the license remains active.
```

Author: @oliviertassinari ?

> Support is available on multiple channels, but the recommended channel is GitHub issues.

Reviewer 2: What are the "multiple channels"? Seems like it's just GitHub and email, so let's say that instead.

```suggestion
We recommend that you use [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues/) for support requests.
```

Author: You also have Zendesk, I don't know how people access this one
@DanailH ?

> If you need to share private information, you can also use email.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also reach us by email at x@mui.com if you need to share private information.
```

> - **MUI X Pro**: No SLA is provided but MUI's maintainers give these issues more attention than the ones from the Community plan. The channels:

Reviewer 2: What does SLA mean in this context? Is there another way to say this?

```suggestion
- **MUI X Pro**: No SLA is provided but MUI's maintainers give these issues more attention than the ones from the Community plan. The channels:
```

Author: @oliviertassinari

  - GitHub: [Open a new issue](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues/new/choose) and leave your Order ID.
  - Email (only to share private information): [Open a new issue](https://support.mui.com/hc/en-us/requests/new?tf_360023797420=mui_x) or send an email at x@mui.com.
- **MUI X Premium**: Same as MUI X Pro, but with priority over Pro, and a 48 hour SLA for the first answer.
  - GitHub: this plan is not available yet
  - Emails: this plan is not available yet
- **MUI X Premium Priority**: Same as MUI X Premium but with a 24 hours SLA for the first answer.
  - GitHub: this plan is not available yet

>   - Emails: this plan is not available yet

Reviewer 2: Is this necessary since these plans are not yet available?

Author: Copy / Pasted, so no strong feeling here
@oliviertassinari

> ## Roadmap

Author: Pure Copy Paste

> Here is [the public roadmap](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/projects/1).
> It's organized by quarter.

Reviewer 2: Let's make this more informative.

```suggestion
To learn more about our plans and goals for the MUI X product line, visit our [public roadmap](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/projects/1).
```
